README.md, before:

# seapath-trace

seapath-trace is a tool used to evaluate the performance of IEC61850
Sample Values kernel processing on a machine.

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Usage](#usage)

## Introduction

The `seapath-trace` project is a tool focused on measuring the latency of
IEC61850 Sample Values. Powered by bpftrace, it achieves to computes the
transit latency of IEC61850 Sample Values from their arrival on the
interface IRQ process, to their processing by the virtualization agent
(currently vhost driver, hosted by qemu).

seapath-trace is designed to work either on a physical machine
(hypervisor) or Virtual Machine. Currently, only qemu using vhost-net
drivers virtualization on the host side and virtio drivers on the VM side
is supported.

seapath-trace uses the power of bpftrace and Linux kprobes to achieve
the measurement of Sample Values latency. Currently, on both physical
and virtual machines, the following kprobes are used:
* `tpacket_rcv` on SV arrival, in SV interface IRQ process
* `consume_skb` on SV proceed, in vhost driver QEMU thread

The following kprobes have been selected as they represent well the
lifetime of an SV on a specific machine. But note that it represents
only a small part of the lifetime; For more scalable tests we recommend
using the seapath performance tool project.

## Features

- Python-based implementation for ease of use and flexibility
- Utilizes bpftrace for high-precision kernel latency measurements
- Designed specifically for IEC61850 SV packets
- `Live` feature for direct in terminal latency measurements
- `record` feature for recording latencies measurements in a file,
   which can be used later for post-processing


## Installation

bpftrace is required on version > v0.20.0. For some Linux distros as
Ubuntu 22.04 the bpftrace package is pretty old, and you would need to
install it directly from the repository:

```bash
wget https://github.com/bpftrace/bpftrace/releases/download/v0.21.2/bpftrace .
chmod +x bpftrace
```

Make sure you satisfy the following dependencies:
```
python3
python3-setuptools
tshark
```

Then, follow these steps to install `seapath-trace`:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/seapath/seapath-trace.git
cd seapath-trace
python3 setup.py install
```


## Usage

The `seapath-trace.cfg` configuration file must be provided to seapath-trace.
The network interface used to receive the IEC61850 Sample Values must
be set in the `SV_INTERFACE` field.

For example:

```bash
[DEFAULT]
SV_INTERFACE=enp7s0
```

To start a measurement and print it directly in terminal, on a
hypervisor use the following command:

```bash
python3 seapath-trace.py --live --conf seapath-trace.cfg --machine hypervisor
```

To exit seapath-trace, hit CTRL+C.

In the same way, to start a measurement and record it in a file, use
the following command:

```bash
python3 seapath-trace.py --record --conf seapath-trace.cfg --machine hypervisor
```

Note: By default:
* results are saved in the `/tmp/` directory.
* seapath-trace is running in `live` mode.

## Release notes

### Version v0.1

* Live measurement in terminal
* Record measurement in a file

Commit message:

svtrace: remove occurences of seapath-trace
svtrace is the definitive name for the standalone version of the SV
latencies measurement tool.

Signed-off-by: Paul Le Guen de Kerneizon <paul.leguendekerneizon@savoirfairelinux.com>

README.md, after:

# svtrace

svtrace is a tool used to evaluate the performance of IEC61850
Sample Values kernel processing on a machine.

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Usage](#usage)

## Introduction

The `svtrace` project is a tool focused on measuring the latency of
IEC61850 Sample Values. Powered by bpftrace, it achieves to computes the
transit latency of IEC61850 Sample Values from their arrival on the
interface IRQ process, to their processing by the virtualization agent
(currently vhost driver, hosted by qemu).

svtrace is designed to work either on a physical machine
(hypervisor) or Virtual Machine. Currently, only qemu using vhost-net
drivers virtualization on the host side and virtio drivers on the VM side
is supported.

svtrace uses the power of bpftrace and Linux kprobes to achieve
the measurement of Sample Values latency. Currently, on both physical
and virtual machines, the following kprobes are used:
* `tpacket_rcv` on SV arrival, in SV interface IRQ process
* `consume_skb` on SV proceed, in vhost driver QEMU thread

The following kprobes have been selected as they represent well the
lifetime of an SV on a specific machine. But note that it represents
only a small part of the lifetime; For more scalable tests we recommend
using the seapath performance tool project.

## Features

- Python-based implementation for ease of use and flexibility
- Utilizes bpftrace for high-precision kernel latency measurements
- Designed specifically for IEC61850 SV packets
- `Live` feature for direct in terminal latency measurements
- `record` feature for recording latencies measurements in a file,
   which can be used later for post-processing


## Installation

bpftrace is required on version > v0.20.0. For some Linux distros as
Ubuntu 22.04 the bpftrace package is pretty old, and you would need to
install it directly from the repository:

```bash
wget https://github.com/bpftrace/bpftrace/releases/download/v0.21.2/bpftrace .
chmod +x bpftrace
```

Make sure you satisfy the following dependencies:
```
python3
python3-setuptools
tshark
```

Then, follow these steps to install `svtrace`:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/seapath/svtrace.git
cd svtrace
python3 setup.py install
```


## Usage

The `svtrace.cfg` configuration file must be provided to svtrace.
The network interface used to receive the IEC61850 Sample Values must
be set in the `SV_INTERFACE` field.

For example:

```bash
[DEFAULT]
SV_INTERFACE=enp7s0
```

To start a measurement and print it directly in terminal, on a
hypervisor use the following command:

```bash
python3 svtrace.py --live --conf svtrace.cfg --machine hypervisor
```

To exit svtrace, hit CTRL+C.

In the same way, to start a measurement and record it in a file, use
the following command:

```bash
python3 svtrace.py --record --conf svtrace.cfg --machine hypervisor
```

Note: By default:
* results are saved in the `/tmp/` directory.
* svtrace is running in `live` mode.

## Release notes

### Version v0.1

* Live measurement in terminal
* Record measurement in a file
